New test data models documentation (#687)
commercetools/test-data: docs/contributing/test-data-models-overview.md

# Test data models overview

> A test data model is set of helper objects commercetools API consumers can use during writing their own tests in order to mock the data returned by our services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A test data model is set of helper objects commercetools API consumers can use when writing their own tests in order to mock the data returned by commercetools services.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

These helpers are flexible enough to represent different types of responses from different APIs and with different values.

## Public API

> Each test data model has the same API which consists on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each test data model has the same API which consists of:
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

- A Rest builder

> - A Graphql builder

Reviewer: Nit when writing we should use the "proper capitalization".

```suggestion
- A GraphQL builder
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

> - Typescript types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript types
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

> A `Builder` is the object you would be interacting with as a consumer and it has only two functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Builder` is the object you are interacting with as a consumer. It has only two functions:
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

- `random`: exposes a fluent API which allows to build a customized version of the data model
- `presets`: predefined versions of the data model

> This is how it looks like the entry point of a data model package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is how an entry point of a data model package looks like:
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

```ts
import { RestModelBuilder, GraphqlModelBuilder } from './builders';
import * as GeometryPresets from './presets';

export * from './types';

export const GeometryRest = {
  random: RestModelBuilder,
  presets: GeometryPresets.restPresets,
};

> export const GeometryGraphql = {

Reviewer: How are we treating the `q` in other places here? Should it be: GeometryGraphQl. No energy for strong feelings towards it.

Author: Sorry but I'm not sure what you mean by "other places".
Currently, this is how I set it up in the CLI generator so I'm consistent with it.
Just let me know if you prefer another format so I can adjust it.

Reviewer: If I get to pick: let's use `GraphQL` in writing and `GraphQl` in code. That's the way I've seen people use it mostly.

Reviewer: It there is a common pattern how to capitalise the term then let's continue to use it. 
If we have inconsistency already then I'd prefer to to with GeometryGraphQl, GraphQlModelBuilder and so on in code. In text we should use GraphQL. 

I am happy to do this as a follow up of this PR.

Author: I think we don't currently have inconsistencies as we're using the `Graphql` version in code everywhere I can think of, even in some existing code ([reference](https://github.com/commercetools/test-data/blob/main/models/commons/src/localized-string/helpers.ts#L18)).

I agree using `GraphQL` in docs, but don't see much improvement in changing the code.

Reviewer: Thanks. Sorry for the detail here and assumption of inconsistencies. Then it's all good.

  random: GraphqlModelBuilder,
  presets: GeometryPresets.graphqlPresets,
};
```

### Examples

> #### Building default random data models

Reviewer: Nit, would have been easier for me to follow this way

```suggestion
#### Building fully random data models
```

Author: My main issue here is that "fully" would imply to me that the data model will have all its values populated, which is not what actually happens.
So far, I've seen we're populating the the required fields in the generators and, for some models, some other fields, but we never return a fully populated object from a simple `Model.random().build()`.

Reviewer: Got it. Makes sense. Thanks for explaining.

```ts
import {
  RestModelBuilder,
  GraphqlModelBuilder,
  type TGeometryRest,
  type TGeometryGraphql,
} from '@commercetools-test-data/geometry';

const restGeometry: TGeometryRest = RestModelBuilder.random().build();
const graphqlGeometry: TGeometryGraphql = GraphqlModelBuilder.random().build();
```

#### Building customized data models

```ts
import {
  RestModelBuilder,
  GraphqlModelBuilder,
  type TGeometryRest,
  type TGeometryGraphql,
} from '@commercetools-test-data/geometry';

const restGeometry: TGeometryRest = RestModelBuilder.random()
  .coordinates([12.45, 66.33])
  .build();
const graphqlGeometry: TGeometryGraphql = GraphqlModelBuilder.random()
  .coordinates([12.45, 66.33])
  .build();
```

> #### Building predefined version data models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Building predefined presets of data models
```

Author: The way I see it, "presets" is what we use in order to have predefined versions of the data models, but the main concept is about having a deterministic version of a model.

```ts
import {
  RestModelBuilder,
  GraphqlModelBuilder,
  type TGeometryRest,
  type TGeometryGraphql,
} from '@commercetools-test-data/geometry';

const restGeometry: TGeometryRest = RestModelBuilder.presets.munich().build();
const graphqlGeometry: TGeometryGraphql = GraphqlModelBuilder.presets
  .munich()
  .build();
```

## Internal structure

> The way a data model is implemented is by using some classes and helpers exposed from the [core](https://github.com/commercetools/test-data/tree/main/core) package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test data model are implemented using some classes and helpers exposed from the [core](https://github.com/commercetools/test-data/tree/main/core) package.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

### Fields config

The core file is named `fields-config` and its responsibility is to describe how the data model properties should be pre-populated and also resolve dependencies among them (if any).

Here's an example of a simple one:

```ts
import { fake, type TModelFieldsConfig } from '@commercetools-test-data/core';
import type { TGeometryGraphql, TGeometryRest } from './types';

const commonFieldsConfig = {
  type: fake(() => 'Point'),
  coordinates: fake((f) => [f.location.longitude(), f.location.latitude()]),
};

export const restFieldsConfig: TModelFieldsConfig<TGeometryRest> = {
  fields: {
    ...commonFieldsConfig,
  },
};

export const graphqlFieldsConfig: TModelFieldsConfig<TGeometryGraphql> = {
  fields: {
    ...commonFieldsConfig,
    __typename: 'Geometry',
  },
};
```

> As you can see, this files is required to export two configuration objects (`restFieldsConfig`, `graphqlFieldsConfig`) which describe how to populate the properties of the data model when building the default version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, these files are required to export two configuration objects (`restFieldsConfig`, `graphqlFieldsConfig`) which describe how to populate the properties of the data model when building the default version.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

> The configuration objects has two properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration object has two properties:
```

Author: I used plural on purpose because we have two configuration objects, one for rest and another for graphql, and I'm trying to refer to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration objects have two properties:
```

Reviewer 2: I think this is closer to your intended meaning here?

Author: Thanks Tyler 🙇 

Updated here: 7b0f7aaddbe19f5d8fd2a8af21a21edc0c90a3c9

- `fields` (**required**): Describe how the default values should be populated

> - `postBuild` (_optional_): Callback function to run modifications in the built data model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `postBuild` (_optional_): Callback function to run modifications on the built data model
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

Here's an example where we use `postBuild` option to populate some values which depend on others to be built first:

```ts
export const graphqlFieldsConfig: TModelFieldsConfig<TChannelGraphql> = {
  fields: {
    ...commonFieldsConfig,
    __typename: 'Channel',
    nameAllLocales: null,
    descriptionAllLocales: null,
  },
  postBuild: (model) => {
    const name = model.nameAllLocales
      ? LocalizedString.resolveGraphqlDefaultLocaleValue(model.nameAllLocales)
      : undefined;
    const description = model.descriptionAllLocales
      ? LocalizedString.resolveGraphqlDefaultLocaleValue(
          model.descriptionAllLocales
        )
      : undefined;
    return {
      name,
      description,
    };
  },
};
```

> In this example, `name` and `description` are values that are calculated based on the `nameAllLocales` and `descriptionAllLocales`. The latter need to be built first using the `postBuild` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, `name` and `description` are values that are calculated based on the `nameAllLocales` and `descriptionAllLocales`. The latter need to be built first, then `name` and `description` are built using the `postBuild` function.
```

Author: Updated here: fdafc205ba0c9b4b6548b6194431516e928bb99c

> In this example, `name` and `description` are values that are calculated based on the `nameAllLocales` and `descriptionAllLocales` ones but we need the latter to be built first, so that why we use the `postBuild` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `name` and `description` are values that are calculated based on the `nameAllLocales` and `descriptionAllLocales`. The latter need to be built first using the `postBuild` function.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

> This function just need to return an object with the updated properties values and it will be merged with the originally built one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function just need to return an object with the updated properties and their values and it will be merged with the originally built one.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

### Builders

> The other main file of the data model is the `builders` one where we actually create the objects which implement the fluent API that allows generating data models objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `builders` is another main file in which we actually create the objects which implement the fluent API that allows generating data models objects.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

This is how it looks like:

```ts
import { createSpecializedBuilder } from '@commercetools-test-data/core';
import { restFieldsConfig, graphqlFieldsConfig } from './fields-config';
import type {
  TCreateGeometryBuilder,
  TGeometryGraphql,
  TGeometryRest,
} from './types';

export const RestModelBuilder: TCreateGeometryBuilder<TGeometryRest> = () =>
  createSpecializedBuilder({
    name: 'GeometryRestBuilder',
    type: 'rest',
    modelFieldsConfig: restFieldsConfig,
  });

export const GraphqlModelBuilder: TCreateGeometryBuilder<
  TGeometryGraphql
> = () =>
  createSpecializedBuilder({
    name: 'GeometryGraphqlBuilder',
    type: 'graphql',
    modelFieldsConfig: graphqlFieldsConfig,
  });
```

> Basically we're exporting one builder for each representation (REST and GRAPHQL) of the data models where we use the `fields-config` file detailed above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're exporting one builder for each representation (REST and GRAPHQL) of the data models for each of which we use the respective `fields-config` file detailed above.
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740

## Testing

It's very important we implement relevant tests for our data models builders so we can make sure consumers will be creating the right data out of our exported assets.

The bare minimum tests to implement are those which validate the generated default models contain the expected base data.

Here's an example:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts
```

Author: Updated here: 620a0125473afc82bd57cb988907d7ff8e8aa740
